so now I'm gonna go over just the basics
of aiding and moving up the piece once
you stand in a piece the most important
thing to do
one is to only have one aider or two
aiders total having one aider is vastly
more simple that leads to less clusters
and really the only reason to have more
than 1/8 or attached to a piece is if
you're gonna hang around on the piece
forever which you shouldn't be doing you
should be moving kind of quickly and
efficiently and in rare cases it makes
it a little more convenient to reach the
next piece but for the most part just
having one aider especially if it's this
type of aid ladder it's it's plenty
comfortable and as long as you're only
standing in it for like a minute or less
placing the next piece you're gonna be
fine
so the most important thing you have 1
aider you clip into the piece and you
instantly walk and tell your waist is
even with the piece the number one
mistake people make when they're ain't
climbing and still clip into a piece and
they'll kind of step onto it and they'll
kind of look at it and then they'll move
up a step kind of look at it look at the
crack look around then move up a little
flip around check things out that's
where you're losing all your time and
all your efficiencies so the second you
clip into a piece just go and you walk
and tell your waist is at it and then
you look at the crack and look for your
next placement if you can in a situation
like this I'm gonna 8th I'm gonna a
climb almost like I'm free climbing I've
got all these jams and holds and so I'm
not going to stop at my waist I'm gonna
keep going I'm gonna keep stepping up
until I get kind of in as comfortable
as I am and then I'm gonna look around
for the next piece and reach as high as
I can check it out flip into it go
through the three stages at the bounce
test just a little bit that's a little
harder check it out make sure it's not
moving
what's up really hard okay no it's good
I can step off
unclip my last dater Clint the rope into
the piece and then again just walk all
the way until my waist just at the piece
then I look around look around and see
what I'm going to do that